[Docs] Add intro and quickstart docs (#859)
mui/mui-toolpad: docs/data/toolpad/connecting-to-datasources/connections.md

# Connections

<p class="description">
    <b>CONNECTION</b> instance allows us to reuse certain configuration details to create <b>queries</b> faster.
</p>

In order to create a new **CONNECTION** instance press **+** button in the **Explorer** on the left:

![Add Connection](/static/toolpad/connection.png)

## Connection types

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### No connection instance required

```

### Function

> <img src="/static/toolpad/connection-function-1.png" alt="Connection function" width="730px" />

Reviewer 2: At a strict minimum, I would expect:

```suggestion
<img src="/static/toolpad/docs/connection-function-1.png" alt="Connection function" width="730px" />
```

since we also have a `/marketing` folder.

> You can define secrets (key/value) that can later be access in the function datasource query:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can define secrets (key/value) that can later be accessed in the function datasource query:
```

>    We can define **Secrets** (key/value) that we can later access in the **Function** datasource **query**:

Reviewer: Replace "we" with "you" and remove unnecessary bold styles.

```suggestion
   You can define Secrets (key-value pairs) that you can later access in the Function data source query:
```

   ![Connection function](/static/toolpad/connection-function-2.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Learn more in the [Function documentation](/toolpad/connecting-to-datasources/function/).

```

> 1. [Fetch](/toolpad/connecting-to-datasources/fetch/) datasource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Fetch
```

   ![Connection fetch](/static/toolpad/connection-fetch-1.png)

>    We can configure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can configure:
```

>    - **base url** - url that can be shared between different queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Base URL—the URL that can be shared between different queries.
```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - **Base URL** - When define, all URLs in queries of this connection are relative to the base URL. This option is required if you want to define headers.
```

>    - **Headers** - pass custom headers with each request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Headers—pass custom headers with each request.
```

> - **Authentication** type - if your API is protected choose authentication method that fits your needs:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Authentication** type - if your API is protected choose the authentication method that fits your needs:
```

>    - **Authentication** type - if your API is protected choose authentication method that fits your needs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Authentication type—if your API is protected, choose the authentication method that fits your needs:
```

>      - **Basic** - adds **Authorization** header and generates **base64** encoded value for a given user credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Basic—adds an authorization header and generates a base64-encoded value for a given user's credentials.
```

>      - **Bearer token** - adds **Authorization** header generates value for provided token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Bearer token—adds an authorization header and generates a value for a provided token.
```

>      - **API key** - adds key/value header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - API key—adds a key-value header.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Learn more in the [Fetch documentation](/toolpad/connecting-to-datasources/fetch/).

### Connection instance required

```

> There are 2 datasources that require connection instance:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are 2 datasources that require a connection instance:
```

> There are 2 datasources that **require** **CONNECTION** instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 2 types of data sources that require a connection instance:
```

> 1. [Google Sheets](/toolpad/connecting-to-datasources/google-sheets/) datasource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Google Sheets
```

>    **Obtain credentials**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Obtain credentials
```

>    Before we create a **Google sheets** connection we must first configure Toolpad app by providing Google sheets **client id** and **secret**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you create a Google Sheets connection, you must first provide a Google Sheets client ID and secret to your Toolpad app:
```

>    1. Create a new Google Cloud project - [instructions](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects#creating_a_project).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Create a new Google Cloud project](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects#creating_a_project).
```

>    2. Generate Oauth 2.0 credentials - [instructions](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2/web-server#creatingcred).

Reviewer: I'm not sure why this whole section of the doc is indented like this. I would remove the indentations for the remaining lines as well.

```suggestion
2. [Generate Oauth 2.0 credentials](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2/web-server#creatingcred).
```

   3. Start Toolpad with following environment variables:

      ```sh
      TOOLPAD_EXTERNAL_URL=<YOUR_APP_URL>
      TOOLPAD_DATASOURCE_GOOGLESHEETS_CLIENT_ID=
      TOOLPAD_DATASOURCE_GOOGLESHEETS_CLIENT_SECRET=
      ```

      where YOUR_APP_URL is the URL Toolpad is hosted on.

   4. Add the following URIs under Authorized Redirect URIs:
      ```sh
      https://<YOUR_APP_URL>/api/dataSources/googleSheets/auth/callback</YOUR_APP_URL>
      ```

>    5. Enable the Google Sheets and Google Drive APIs for the project - [instructions](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2/web-server#enable-apis).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. [Enable the Google Sheets and Google Drive APIs](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2/web-server#enable-apis) for the project.
```

>    **Connect your google account**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Connect your Google account
```

<img src="/static/toolpad/docs/connection-sheets-1.png" alt="Connection Google Sheets" width="724px" />

> 1. Choose google account that you want to authorize.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Choose the Google account that you want to authorize.
```

>    1. Once you create **Google Sheets** type connection click **CONNECT** button:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you've created the Google Sheets connection, click **CONNECT**:
```

1. Grant access to your Google Drive files by clicking **Allow**.

> 1. Once you successfully connect your account you should see a button stating the acount that was connected.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Once you successfully connect your account you should see a button stating the account that was connected.
```

>    ![Connection Google Sheets](/static/toolpad/connection-sheets-1.png)
> 
>    1. Choose google account that you want to authorize.
> 
>    1. Grant access to your Google Drive files by clicking **Allow**.
> 
>    1. Once you successfully connect your account you should see a button stating the acount that was connected.
> 
>    ![Google sheets connected](/static/toolpad/connection-sheets-2.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Connection Google Sheets](/static/toolpad/connection-sheets-1.png)

Choose the Google account that you want to authorize, and grant access to your Google Drive files by clicking **Allow**.
You should see a confirmation button once you've successfully connected your account.

![Google sheets connected](/static/toolpad/connection-sheets-2.png)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more in the [Google Sheets documentation](/toolpad/connecting-to-datasources/google-sheets/).
```

> 2. [PostgreSQL](/toolpad/connecting-to-datasources/postgreSQL/) datasource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### PostgreSQL
```

>    In order **query** data from **PostgreSQL** database we **must** configure connection:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To query data from a PostgreSQL database, you must configure the connection:
```

>    ![Connection postgres](/static/toolpad/connection-postgres-1.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Connection postgres](/static/toolpad/connection-postgres-1.png)
```

>    Provide database credentials and **TEST CONNECTION** to verify that we are able to connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide the database credentials and click **TEST CONNECTION** to verify that you're able to connect.
```

>    If everything is correct **SAVE** and you will be able to use [PostgreSQL](/toolpad/connecting-to-datasources/postgreSQL/) queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If everything is correct, click **SAVE** to complete the connection.

Learn more in the [PostgreSQL documentation](/toolpad/connecting-to-datasources/postgreSQL/).
```

To create a new connection instance, press the **+** button in the Explorer menu on the left side of the interface:

> <img src="/static/toolpad/connection.png" alt="Add connection" width="196px" />

Reviewer 2: > did you fetched dimensions manually

@bytasv I have done the change manually, using the Chrome Dev Tools. https://www.notion.so/mui-org/Images-solution-30e78dbf24744ed5b570027656139092 is exploring on how to automate this.

> that large images seems to get downsized anyways because we have a limit on our content width

With the changes, these large images now use the whole space available. I assume it's a win?

> IMO when everything is downsized it looks a little bit bitter.

"bitter" as bitter taste, or better? So I guess we are talking about how to handle images that can fit inside the body width. Should we downsize them or not?

The advantage of having them 1:1, is I think: readability, assuming the interface we screenshot is already readable, by keeping it 1:1 we guarantee that nothing will be too small to read. Fidelity, maybe it's easier to orient oneself when the scale is the same. No artifacts when browser resizing, the resizing is either 1:1 or 2:1.
Now, feel free to revert, I have no real preferences.

>  I was thinking that maybe it would be better (if possible) to use some modal to show original size images when clicked? (i.e. how medium does it)

Agree, this could be a great addition. like https://stripe.com/docs/payments/link/accept-a-payment?platform=web#web-create-intent.

> <img src="/static/toolpad/connection.png" alt="Add connection" width="196px" />

Reviewer 2: > we don't get much benefit of images that are larger than ~780px.

Agree, but it still feel better by using all the available space, right 😁. 

> For me it seems a bit disproportionate. So rather than try to fit some images 1:1, idea was to downscale so they ALL look kinda similar and do not standout with their scale.

Sounds fair. So from my points above. We can discard point B. and only enforce A. and C. Does it with you?

> Additionally, IMO it would be really good (and maybe not too difficult?) to add "image zoom" on click?
I could ping core team and check how I could implement this in a current doc infra

Two extra thoughts: 1. the core team doesn't own this one, the docs infra team does. 2. the docs infra team might actually need a maintainer to represent the interests of Toolpad as we grow.

> <img src="/static/toolpad/connection.png" alt="Add connection" width="196px" />

Author: Alright, let's leave it as is, I don't have strong preferences 👍 

Who are in fact docs infra team? 🤔 I assume it's a virtual setup since I couldn't find any info. So far I think only Jun has been replying to request
